We're nearing the end of this section,
now let's do something which I actually need on this application. On this discover page here,
I want to have two types of places I can discover, one are all the places including the ones I'm offering
and of course you could also simply filter those out
but I want to introduce a new component as well, a component that allows us to switch between two different
modes here. A mode for viewing all places and a mode for viewing actual bookable places,
so places not offered by us.
Now we could use tabs but tabs should be used for navigating between different pages.
I don't want to load different pages, I in the end just want to set a different filter here.
Now how could we do that? For that on the discover page,
we can add a new component at the very top of this page, outside of the ion-grid even
but you could also add it inside depending on the styling you want and that is the ion-segment component.
The ion-segment component allows you to add so-called segmented buttons which means buttons where only
one button of the set of buttons can be active at a time. In there, you do indeed add the ion-segment
button components and these buttons can get icons, labels, so basically how you style regular buttons
or the content you can pass into regular buttons and I'll have all places on one button and on the other
button, bookable places
let's say
Now important, to these buttons you can assign a value property which will not be visible but when you
later select a button and listen to that event, that value property will be passed with the event so
that in your code, you can find out which button was pressed,
so like an identifier basically.
So here, I'll pass all
and here as a value, I'll pass bookable.
You can also set the checked attribute but only one button at a time can be checked and that will basically
be the pre-selected button which is selected at the start.
Now in on the ion-segment, you can listen to changes in the selection and you do that with the ionChange
event.
This is obviously not a standard event but it is an event emitted by Ionic through its components,
so Ionic will emit this event whenever a new selection is made and then you can for example run
onFilterUpdate, the name of the method is up to you
and important, forward the default event object you get here by Ionic and you do that in Angular by
using the $event variable here which is made available by Angular to hold the event object
you're getting. And all you have to do now is in onFilterUpdate, in this component page, you can listen
to that event and then react. So there, you'll get your event which is of type custom event and custom
event does not need to be imported,
it's a default web feature,
it's a so-called generic type which means you can also pass some extra data about which customer event
data this custom event object will hold
and in this case, this would be the segment change event detail object which now needs to be imported
from @ionic/core.
Now it is optional to import this but with this type assignment, you get better auto-completion.
So this is the event we'll be getting here and inside of this onFilterUpdate, I'll simply log event
and then detail is a property that holds the detailed event data for this event,
so that should be that segment change event
detail data. And now if we go back, we see these two tabs here at the top and if we switch to an iPhone,
we also see that as soon as we reload, this has the iPhone look
and now let me open the console log here,
you see we get this object value all right at the start because I chose checked for the first segment
and if we now switch, we see this now gets emitted here, value bookable. So these are the values you
entered in your HTML code and this will become important later when we actually filter our data
or when we load different data depending on our selection, to either view all places or only the places
we can actually book.